# javafx
* Linux RPM file - is for Red Hat, Fedora, OpenSuse, etc.;  
* Linux DEB file - is for Debian and its derrivatives, such as Ubuntu, Linux Mint, ZorinOS, etc.  
* Linux APPIMAGE file - works across several Linux distributions and is guaranteed to work freestanding without any installation.  

This article is about \[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java\_(programming\_language) Java\], the programming language. \_\_TOC\_\_ == Java Web Start == Available as `javaws` in package `adoptopenjdk-icedtea-web`. == JDK options == Your default choice should probably be to install `jdk11`, which is an alias for `openjdk11`. If you're in a server environment, go for `jdk11_headless`. Java 11 is the currently-maintained LTS version of OpenJDK as of March 2021. As you might expect, though, many flavors of Java are available in NixOS. \* OpenJDK, by far the most popular non-Oracle JVM implementation \*\* `openjdk8[_headless]` for a legacy Java 8 VM required by some older apps \*\* `openjdk11[_headless]`, the currently-supported LTS version of OpenJDK \*\* `openjdk14[_headless]`, the current version of OpenJDK \* AdoptOpenJDK, prebuilt binaries for OpenJDK \*\* `adoptopenjdk-bin` points to the latest version of AdoptOpenJDK, which is version 11 at the time of writing. \*\* `adoptopenjdk-jre-bin` is available if you want to avoid downloading the compiler and only require the runtime environment. \*\* `adoptopenjdk{,-jre}-openj9-bin-{8,11,13}` same, but using \[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenJ9 Eclipse OpenJ9\] instead of HotSpot as its JVM. \* JetBrains JDK (`jetbrains.jdk`), a fork of OpenJDK with modifications made by JetBrains \* Oracle's JDK (`oraclejdk`), only version 8 is available. == Using Oracle JDK instead of Open JDK == Almost all Java packages in nixpkgs use Open JDK in form of a '''jre''' dependency. If you use Oracle JDK and also want other applications to use it, you can simply tweak your `.nixpkgs/config.nix` so that your desired application uses Oracles JDK or JRE. Example with UMLet with JRE { allowUnfree = true; packageOverrides = pkgs: rec { umlet = pkgs.umlet.override { jre = pkgs.oraclejre8; }; }; } To install the Oracle JRE system-wide, you need to explicitly accept the license in addition to allowing unfree modules: \# /etc/nixos/configuration.nix { nixpkgs.config.allowUnfree = true; programs.java = { enable = true; package = pkgs.oraclejre8; }; } Working with `requireFile` (manual downloading the tarballs and manual adding in to the nix store) might be annoying and nixops-unfriendly, so it can be overridden in overlays nixpkgs.overlays = let files = { "jdk-8u241-linux-linux-arm32-vfp-hflt.tar.gz" = /home/user/blobs/java/jdk-8u241-linux-linux-arm32-vfp-hflt.tar.gz; "jdk-8u241-linux-linux-arm64-vfp-hflt.tar.gz" = /home/user/blobs/java/jdk-8u241-linux-linux-arm64-vfp-hflt.tar.gz; "jdk-8u241-linux-i586.tar.gz" = /home/user/blobs/java/jdk-8u241-linux-i586.tar.gz; "jdk-8u241-linux-x64.tar.gz" = /home/user/blobs/java/jdk-8u241-linux-x64.tar.gz; }; in \[ (self: super: { requireFile = args @ {name, url, sha1 ? null, sha256 ? null}: if files?${name} then self.stdenvNoCC.mkDerivation { inherit name; outputHashMode = "flat"; outputHashAlgo = if sha256 != null then "sha256" else "sha1"; outputHash = if sha256 != null then sha256 else sha1 ; buildCommand = "cp ${files.${name}} $out"; } else super.requireFile args; }) \]; == Better font rendering== By default java does not enable antialiasing for font rendering. By exporting environment variables, this can be fixed: $ export \_JAVA\_OPTIONS='-Dawt.useSystemAAFontSettings=lcd' More options can be found in the \[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Java\_Runtime\_Environment\_fonts archlinux wiki\] == Overriding java jks Certificate Store == Overriding the java certificate store may be required for adding your own Root certificates in case your company uses an internal PKI or the company utilizes an intercepting proxy. === jdk8 === Overriding the jdk8 certificate store is possible by overriding the '''cacert''' parameter of the package: { pkgs, ... }: let myjdk = pkgs.jdk8.override { cacert = pkgs.runCommand "mycacert" {} '' mkdir -p $out/etc/ssl/certs cat ${pkgs.cacert}/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt \\ ${./my-company-root-certificate.crt} &gt; $out/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt ''; }; in { programs.java = { enable = true; package = myjdk }; } the java package build will use the '''ca-bundle''' to run keytool and transform it into '''jks''' format. you could also use { nixpkgs.overlays = \[(self: super: {jdk = super.jdk8.override { };} )\]; }  to override the default jdk so all packages use the patched java version. === jdk11 === JDK11 does not provide the cacert overridable and therefore it is not possible to use the same technique to override the truststore. == Building and Packaging == see the \[https://ryantm.github.io/nixpkgs/languages-frameworks/java/ Java section in the Nixpkgs manual\] === Maven === \[https://maven.apache.org/run.html Maven\] is a build tool for Java. The typical build command is

```
mvn verify
```

\[https://github.com/fzakaria/mvn2nix mvn2nix\] and \[https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/master/pkgs/build-support/build-maven.nix buildMaven\] can be used to build Maven projects with Nix See also: \[https://fzakaria.com/2020/07/20/packaging-a-maven-application-with-nix.html Packaging a Maven application with Nix\] === Ant === \[https://ant.apache.org/manual/running.html Ant\] is a build tool for Java. To build the `compile` target, run ```
ant compile
```

To list available build targets, run ```
ant -p
```
